first draft of Q&A page (#792)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions.md

---

> title: "Upgrading dbt versions in cloud"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Upgrading dbt versions in Cloud"
```
I think?

There aren't many breaking changes between versions, and it may be the case that you don't need to change any code to upgrade to a newer version of dbt in dbt Cloud. You may only need to change the settings in your environment or job to call a more recent version of dbt - directions to do so can be found [here](/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-choosing-a-dbt-version.md).

### How to run the latest version of dbt in Cloud

To get started, read the next section to figure out if your project might be affected when upgrading to a newer version of dbt. This should help you identify what changes, if any, you'll need to make. 

#### Changes between minor versions of dbt that will affect your project

Below we try to help you answer the question of whether a known breaking change between minor versions of dbt will affect your project. If you answer "yes" to any of the questions below, we recommend that you read the migration guides that we've put together for every dbt minor version release.

> :::caution An Important Note on Packages

Reviewer: This feels like more of an `:::info` (read this!) than a `:::caution` (bad things might/will happen!), but I don't know our latest thinking on callout style

Author: I felt this was more important than just info, but I could also change it

Reviewer: yeah I was going back and forth. happy either way!

> If you use any packages from [dbt Hub]([https://hub.getdbt.com/](https://hub.getdbt.com/)), make sure you also upgrade to a version of the package that supports the dbt version you intend to upgrade to. You can see which dbt versions a package supports by checking on the `require-dbt-version:` in the package's dbt_project.yml file on Github. As an example dbt-utils version 0.7.1 supports dbt v0.20.0 to v0.21.x, as described in its [dbt_project.yml]([https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils/blob/0.7.1/dbt_project.yml](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils/blob/0.7.1/dbt_project.yml)). Importantly, after you've changed the package version in your packages.yml file, be sure to run `dbt deps` in the IDE; otherwise dbt will not know to clone the a different version of the package and will likely give an error message.

Reviewer: Might be worth adding a note here to the effect of, we know this information isn't exposed as well it could be, we're thinking of ways to make it better
```suggestion
If you use any packages from [dbt Hub]([https://hub.getdbt.com/](https://hub.getdbt.com/)), make sure you also upgrade to a version of the package that supports the dbt version you intend to upgrade to. You can see which dbt versions a package supports by checking on the `require-dbt-version:` in the package's dbt_project.yml file on Github.

As an example, dbt-utils version 0.7.1 supports dbt v0.20, and it will support v0.21 when it is released, as described in its [dbt_project.yml](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils/blob/0.7.1/dbt_project.yml).

After you've changed the package version in your packages.yml file, be sure to run `dbt deps` in the IDE to install the updated version.
```

:::

<details>

> <summary>  Upgrading to v0.20.0 from v0.19.x </summary>

Reviewer: With an eye toward building the habit of thinking in minor versions (and _always_ using latest patch releases), what do you think of changing this one (and following):

- Instead of: `Upgrading to v0.20.0 from v0.19.x`
- We just say: `Upgrading to v0.20 from v0.19`

Where those imply `v0.20.latest` and `v0.19.latest`

I know the migration guide is called "Upgrading to 0.20.0"; I'm open to changing them to "Upgrading to v0.20" instead.

Author: I might actually introduce the .latest suffix.

- Does your project define any custom schema tests?
- Does your project use `adapter.dispatch` or the `spark_utils` package?
- Do you have custom scripts that parse dbt JSON artifacts?

If you believe your project might be affected, read more details in the migration guide [here](/docs/guides/migration-guide/upgrading-to-0-20-0).

</details>

<details>
<summary>  Upgrading to v0.19.0 from v0.18.x </summary>

<div>

:::info Important   

If you have not already, you must add `config-version: 2` to your dbt_project.yml file.

:::

> </div>

Reviewer: 👍 

Maybe: `See "Upgrading to v0.17 from v0.16" below for more details.`

</details>

<details>
<summary>  Upgrading to v0.16.0 from v0.15.x </summary>

- Do you use the custom `generate_schema_name` macro?
- Do you use `partition_by` config for BigQuery models?

If you believe your project might be affected, read more details in the migration guide [here](/docs/guides/migration-guide/upgrading-to-0-16-0).
</details>

<details>
<summary>  Upgrading to v0.15.0 from v0.14.x </summary>

- Do you have a custom materialization?
- Do you have a macro that accesses `Relations` directly?

If you believe your project might be affected, read more details in the migration guide [here](/docs/guides/migration-guide/upgrading-to-0-15-0).
</details>

<details>
<summary>  Upgrading to v0.14.0 from v0.13.x </summary>

- Do you still use `Archives`?
- Do you use the custom `generate_schema_name` macro?
- Do you use the `—non-destructive` flag?

If you believe your project might be affected, read more details in the migration guide [here](/docs/guides/migration-guide/upgrading-to-0-14-0).
</details>

#### Testing your changes before upgrading

> Once you have an idea about what code changes you'll need to make, you can start implementing them in your development environment. You'll first need to [change the project's development environment settings](docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-choosing-a-dbt-version#supported-versions) to run the latest version of dbt. Next check out a branch `dbt-version-upgrade`, make the appropriate updates to your project, and see if your dbt project compiles and runs with the new version of dbt in the IDE. If jumping directly to the latest version of dbt is too far of a leap for your project, try iteratively getting your project to work on each successive version between the version you're currently running and the latest release of dbt. While there may be a handful of changes between two distant versions of dbt, there shouldn't be many between two subsequent versions of dbt, which is why upgrading regularly is important.

Reviewer: Do you want to discuss creating a new project with a brand-new development environment, to avoid causing issues for other developers using the IDE at the same time?
```suggestion
Once you have an idea about what code changes you'll need to make, you can start implementing them in your development environment. You'll first need to [change the project's development environment settings](docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-choosing-a-dbt-version#supported-versions) to run the latest version of dbt. Next check out a branch `dbt-version-upgrade`, make the appropriate updates to your project (if needed), and see if your dbt project compiles and runs with the new version of dbt in the IDE. If jumping directly to the latest version of dbt is too far of a leap for your project, try iteratively getting your project to work on each successive minor version. There are years of development and a handful of breaking changes between two distant versions of dbt (e.g. 0.14 --> 0.20). There are far fewer between two subsequent versions of dbt, which is why upgrading regularly is important.
```

#### Changes between minor versions of dbt that will affect your project

Below we try to help you answer the question of whether a known breaking change between minor versions of dbt will affect your project. If you answer "yes" to any of the questions below, we recommend that you read the migration guides that we've put together for every dbt minor version release.

:::info An Important Note on Packages

If you use any packages from [dbt Hub]([https://hub.getdbt.com/](https://hub.getdbt.com/)), make sure you also upgrade to a version of the package that supports the dbt version you intend to upgrade to. You can see which dbt versions a package supports by checking on the `require-dbt-version:` in the package's dbt_project.yml file on GitHub.

As an example, dbt-utils version 0.7.1 supports dbt v0.20 and v0.21, as described in its [dbt_project.yml](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils/blob/0.7.1/dbt_project.yml).

After you've changed the package version in your packages.yml file, be sure to run `dbt deps` in the IDE to install the updated version.

:::

<details>
<summary>  Upgrading to v0.20.latest from v0.19 </summary>
<br></br>

> - Does your project define any custom schema tests?

Reviewer 2: I think these are formatting weird in the preview! 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60658459/134073404-7a0a2d13-f0ca-407a-abd3-cf7636973949.png)

'Upgrading to v0.19.latest from v0.18' and 'Upgrading to v0.17.latest from v0.16' both look good in the preview, but all others don't seem to be formatted correctly!
